Release 100.0.0 (#3667)
MetaMask/core: packages/assets-controllers/CHANGELOG.md

  - The following controllers now accept a `onNetworkDidChange` constructor option instead of a `onNetworkStateChange` option:
    - `TokensController`
    - `AssetsContractController`
- Update `@metamask/polling-controller` to v3 ([#3636](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3636))
  - This update adds two new methods to each polling controller: `_startPollingByNetworkClientId` and `_stopPollingByPollingTokenSetId`. These methods are intended for internal use, and should not be called directly.
  - The affected controllers are:
    - `AccountTrackerController`
    - `CurrencyRateController`
    - `NftDetectionController`
    - `TokenDetectionController`
    - `TokenListController`
    - `TokenRatesController`
- Update `TokenListController` to fetch prefiltered set of tokens from the API, reducing response data and removing the need for filtering logic ([#2054](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2054))
- Update `TokenRatesController` to request token rates from the Price API in batches of 100 ([#3650](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3650))

> - Add dependencies `cockatiel` and `lodash` ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586), [#3655](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3655))

Reviewer: It looks like in addition to bumping `@metamask/polling-controller`, we also bumped `@metamask/controller-utils` to ^7.0.0. Should we include that too?

Author: Added here: https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/79aaee4709aacb815474fc8497f731c0e24ed0d0

and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

## [21.0.0]
### Added
- Add `CodefiTokenPricesServiceV2` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3655](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3655), [#3655](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3655))
  - This class can be used for the new `tokenPricesService` argument for TokenRatesController. It uses a MetaMask API to fetch prices for tokens instead of CoinGecko.
  - The `CodefiTokenPricesServiceV2` will retry if the token price update fails
    - We retry each request up to 3 times using a randomized exponential backoff strategy
    - If the token price update still fails 12 times consecutively (3 update attempts, each of which has 4 calls due to retries), we stop trying for 30 minutes before we try again.
- Add polling by `networkClientId` to `AccountTrackerController` ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

>   - A new state property, `accountByChainId` has been added for keeping track of account balances across chains

Reviewer: This is a breaking change since AccountTrackerState is public.

Author: Right.... I was considering it non-breaking because it's an addition. But it's a non-optional property, and the state is still a constructor parameter, so I think that makes it breaking. I'll update this

Author: Documented here: https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/d7d0b01ad8107bd1f63fff8bac56d036e280da12

I left this description under the "Added" entry here because it helps explain what was added, but it's listed separately as a breaking change for anyone reviewing this changelog just for breakages

  - `AccountTrackerController` implements `PollingController` and can now poll by `networkClientId` via the new methods `startPollingByNetworkClientId`, `stopPollingByPollingToken`, and `stopPollingByPollingToken`.
  - `AccountTrackerController` accepts an optional `networkClientId` value on the `refresh` method

>   - `AccountTrackerController` accepts an optional `networkClientId` value as the last parameter of the `syncBalanceWithAddresses ` method

Reviewer: Nit:

``` suggestion
  - `AccountTrackerController` accepts an optional `networkClientId` value as the last parameter of the `syncBalanceWithAddresses` method

- Support token detection on Base and zkSync ([#3584](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3584))
- Support token detection on Arbitrum and Optimism ([#2035](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2035))

> ### Changed

Reviewer: Should we mention that `cockatiel` was added as a new dependency in 3655, and `lodash` was added as a dependency in 3586?

Author: Good catch, done in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/91811aaa2795b9b2677423acd323ed5c4e89f93f

- **BREAKING:** `TokenRatesController` now takes a required argument `tokenPricesService` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600))
  - This object is responsible for fetching the prices for tokens held by this controller.
- **BREAKING:** Update signature of `TokenRatesController.updateExchangeRatesByChainId` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3653](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3653))
  - Change the type of `tokenAddresses` from `string[]` to `Hex[]`
- **BREAKING:** `AccountTrackerController` constructor params object requires `getCurrentChainId` and `getNetworkClientById` hooks ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))
  - These are needed for the new "polling by `networkClientId`" feature

> - **BREAKING**: `AccountTrackerController` adds a mutex to `refresh` making it only possible for one call to be executed at time ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

Author: Hmm. Good question. It is a notable difference in behavior that isn't strictly compatible with the previous behavior, but I'm having trouble thinking of a scenario where it would be "breaking".

I guess you could now introduce deadlocks that weren't possible previously, but only by using this method in a very strange way :sweat_smile:

> - **BREAKING**: `AccountTrackerController` adds a mutex to `refresh` making it only possible for one call to be executed at time ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

Reviewer 2: Haha sorry about that. Feel free to remove the BREAKING label if you feel that it isn't accurate.

> - **BREAKING**: `AccountTrackerController` adds a mutex to `refresh` making it only possible for one call to be executed at time ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

Author: I can remove the "BREAKING" if someone finds that preferable or finds this confusing, but otherwise I'll leave it. I think there's a reasonable case to be made either way, definitely a gray area.

> - **BREAKING**: `AccountTrackerController` adds a mutex to `refresh` making it only possible for one call to be executed at time ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

Reviewer: Okay, better to be safe than sorry.

- **BREAKING**: `TokensController.watchAsset` now performs on-chain validation of the asset's symbol and decimals, if they're defined in the contract ([#1745](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1745))
  - Additionally, if the symbol and decimals are defined in the contract, they are no longer required to be passed to `watchAsset`

> - **BREAKING**: The TokenRatesController now only supports updating and polling rates for tokens tracked by the TokensController ([#3639](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3639))

Author: Good point, yes I think so. Same for your second removal comment.

> - **BREAKING**: The TokenRatesController now only supports updating and polling rates for tokens tracked by the TokensController ([#3639](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3639))

Author: Updated in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/c1afda7a2a2d96d94dc6b2fed5f488010b9a17a5

  - The `tokenAddresses` option has been removed from `startPollingByNetworkClientId`
  - The `tokenContractAddresses` option has been removed from `updateExchangeRatesByChainId`

> - **BREAKING**: `TokenRatesController.fetchAndMapExchangeRates` is no longer exposed publicly ([#3621](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3621))

Author: Updated in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/c1afda7a2a2d96d94dc6b2fed5f488010b9a17a5

- **BREAKING:** Update controllers that rely on provider to listen to `NetworkController:networkDidChange` instead of `NetworkController:stateChange` ([#3610](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3610))
  - The `networkDidChange` event is safer in cases where the provider is used because the provider is guaranteed to have been updated by the time that event is emitted. The same is not true of the `stateChange` event.
  - The following controllers now accept a `onNetworkDidChange` constructor option instead of a `onNetworkStateChange` option:
    - `TokensController`
    - `AssetsContractController`

> - Update `@metamask/polling-controller` to v3 ([#3636](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3636))

Author: @adonesky1 does this sound right to you?

I noticed that that PR didn't include any change entries for this package, but it does seem to me that it at least added these underscore-prefixed methods.

- Support token detection on Base and zkSync ([#3584](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3584))
- Support token detection on Arbitrum and Optimism ([#2035](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2035))

### Changed
- **BREAKING:** `TokenRatesController` now takes a required argument `tokenPricesService` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600))
  - This object is responsible for fetching the prices for tokens held by this controller.
- **BREAKING:** Update signature of `TokenRatesController.updateExchangeRatesByChainId` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3653](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3653))
  - Change the type of `tokenAddresses` from `string[]` to `Hex[]`
- **BREAKING:** `AccountTrackerController` constructor params object requires `getCurrentChainId` and `getNetworkClientById` hooks ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))
  - These are needed for the new "polling by `networkClientId`" feature
- **BREAKING**: `AccountTrackerController` adds a mutex to `refresh` making it only possible for one call to be executed at time ([#3586](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3586))

> - **BREAKING**: `TokensController.watchAsset` now performs on-chain validation of the asset's symbol and decimals, if they're defined in the contract ([#1745](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1745))

Reviewer: It looks like this PR also

- removes `getERC20TokenName` as an option for TokensController (BREAKING)
- adds a new public method, `_getProvider` (although it's not intended for public use, so I'm not sure if it's worth mentioning)

Author: Thanks, more details added here: https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3667/commits/85c966c46c8faddbf86d97a50636942aa483c08b

and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

## [21.0.0]
### Added
- Add `CodefiTokenPricesServiceV2` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3655](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3655), [#3655](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3655))

>   - This object can be used for the new `tokenPricesService` argument for TokenRatesController. It uses an internal API to fetch prices for tokens instead of CoinGecko.

Author: Nit: It's now a class, not an object
```suggestion
  - This class can be used for the new `tokenPricesService` argument for TokenRatesController. It uses an internal API to fetch prices for tokens instead of CoinGecko.
```

>   - This class can be used for the new `tokenPricesService` argument for TokenRatesController. It uses an internal API to fetch prices for tokens instead of CoinGecko.

Author: Nit: Clarify that the API we're using is one maintained by us. "internal" was a bit ambiguous, and could be interpreted as internal to the client.
```suggestion
  - This class can be used for the new `tokenPricesService` argument for TokenRatesController. It uses a MetaMask API to fetch prices for tokens instead of CoinGecko.
```

  - `AccountTrackerController` implements `PollingController` and can now poll by `networkClientId` via the new methods `startPollingByNetworkClientId`, `stopPollingByPollingToken`, and `stopPollingByPollingToken`.
  - `AccountTrackerController` accepts an optional `networkClientId` value on the `refresh` method
  - `AccountTrackerController` accepts an optional `networkClientId` value as the last parameter of the `syncBalanceWithAddresses ` method
- Support token detection on Base and zkSync ([#3584](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3584))
- Support token detection on Arbitrum and Optimism ([#2035](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2035))

### Changed
- **BREAKING:** `TokenRatesController` now takes a required argument `tokenPricesService` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600))
  - This object is responsible for fetching the prices for tokens held by this controller.
- **BREAKING:** Update signature of `TokenRatesController.updateExchangeRatesByChainId` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3653](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3653))
  - Change the type of `tokenAddresses` from `string[]` to `Hex[]`

> - **BREAKING:** Change signature of `TokenRatesController.fetchAndMapExchangeRates` ([#3600](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3600), [#3653](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3653))
>   - This method now takes an object with shape `{ tokenAddresses: Hex[]; chainId: Hex; nativeCurrency: string; }` rather than positional arguments

Author: We can omit this, the method is no longer public
```suggestion
```

- **BREAKING:** Update controllers that rely on provider to listen to `NetworkController:networkDidChange` instead of `NetworkController:stateChange` ([#3610](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3610))
  - The `networkDidChange` event is safer in cases where the provider is used because the provider is guaranteed to have been updated by the time that event is emitted. The same is not true of the `stateChange` event.
  - The following controllers now accept a `onNetworkDidChange` constructor option instead of a `onNetworkStateChange` option:
    - `TokensController`
    - `AssetsContractController`
- Update `@metamask/polling-controller` to v3 ([#3636](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3636))
  - This update adds two new methods to each polling controller: `_startPollingByNetworkClientId` and `_stopPollingByPollingTokenSetId`. These methods are intended for internal use, and should not be called directly.
  - The affected controllers are:
    - `AccountTrackerController`
    - `CurrencyRateController`
    - `NftDetectionController`
    - `TokenDetectionController`
    - `TokenListController`
    - `TokenRatesController`

> - Update `TokenListController`` to fetch prefiltered set of tokens from the API, reducing response data and removing the need for filtering logic ([#2054](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2054))
> - Update `TokenRatesController`` to request token rates from the Price API in batches of 100 ([#3650](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3650))

Author: ```suggestion
- Update `TokenListController` to fetch prefiltered set of tokens from the API, reducing response data and removing the need for filtering logic ([#2054](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2054))
- Update `TokenRatesController` to request token rates from the Price API in batches of 100 ([#3650](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3650))
```

  - These types were previously used in TokenRatesController to represent data returned from the CoinGecko API. There is no equivalent.

### Fixed
- Prevent `TokenRatesController` from making redundant token rate updates when tokens change ([#3647](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3647), [#3663](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3663))
  - Previously, token rates would be re-fetched for the globally selected network on all TokensController state changes, but now token rates are always performed for a deduplicated and normalized set of addresses, and changes to this set determine whether rates should be re-fetched.
- Prevent redundant overlapping token rate updates in `TokenRatesController` ([#3635](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3635))
- Fix `TokenRatesController` bug where the `contractExchangeRates` state would sometimes be stale after calling `updateExchangeRatesByChainId` ([#3624](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3624))
- Make `TokenRatesController.updateExchangeRatesByChainId` respect `disabled` state ([#3596](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3596))

> - Fix error in `NftController` when attempt to get NFT information from on-chain fails, and ensure metadata always contains contract address and blank `name` field ([#3629](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3629))

Reviewer: It looks like this PR also fixed a potential issue with fetching details for ERC 1155 tokens: https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/3629/files#diff-07569734c8b1c2861eafbf941f191ded03f70ea952d886387e87915ac85a7c47R240. Previously, tokenURI could be undefined, yet an attempt would be made to make a request anyway. Now that we have proper types for `tokenURI`, TypeScript knows it could be undefined, so we are forced to check for it instead of `tokenId`; but this also makes it so that we only make the request if we have a URL.

But maybe that's what "Fix error in `NftController` when attempt to get NFT information from on-chain fails" implies?

Author: I only meant to reference the uses of `getNftInformation` with this change entry, hence the reference to this affecting `watchNft` and `addNft` (the two methods that call `getNftInformation`).

I thought the `tokenId` => `tokenURI` change had no functional impact. I'll take a closer look.

Author: Good catch, agreed that this is also a bug fix. I'll try to work this in.

Author: Actually on second thought, I don't think this constitutes a functional change because the "fetch undefined" step is in a try/catch block with an empty catch. So it would have caused an error previously, but it was suppressed. Whereas now it's skipped. I think it's the same end result, just nicer code now.

Reviewer: Alright!
